---
layout: post
title:  "첫 인터뷰 Part 2: 인터뷰 내용"
subtitle: "인터뷰 스크립트"
date:   2020-01-08 22:11:20
author: jaeyoon
categories: ["HCI", "유학"]
tags:
- "미국"
- "인터뷰"
- "PhD"
---

인터뷰 내용 중 기억에 남는 부분을 여기 남긴다. 내가 한국어로 두뇌가 돌아가는 사람이라 뒤늦게 영어로 복기하는 데 애먹었다. 군데군데 표현이 어설플 수 있으니 이해 바란다.

**A: Hi, Jaeyoon. I found your application very interesting. Am I pronouncing your name correctly?**  
나: Yes, your pronunciation is perfect.  
A: Great, I am A. I study xx and publish at conferences like yy.  I know that you didn’t mention my name in your SOP, and that’s totally fine. Even if you don't get to work with me, I can make a reference to B you mentioned in the essay, or you getting co-advised by me and B is also a possibility.  
나: I see. That is an answer to my first question, so thank you. My research interest is ~~, which I think has an overlap with your research area to some extent. It's an honor to get this kind of opportunity.

> 제일 많이 연습한 게 초반부에 말할 자기소개였는데, 초반부에는 내가 준비한 걸 말할 기회가 없을 정도로 A교수님이 먼저 말씀을 많이 하시며 긴장을 풀어주셨다.

**A: Okay then, let’s start from the first question I gave you. Tell me your “why.” Why do you want to pursue a PhD?**  
나: I guess it's because doing HCI research aligns with my vision of the future. I believe increasingly more and more social challenges need to be addressed in groups, in teams, and in organizations. And we struggle to make this really work because we are not so great at working together to get things done. Particularly when the size of the team scales up. That's where I see an opportunity for research. We can ask, how might computing help us overcome the kinds of heuristics and biases that might lead us astray and how we design our collaborations. 
Ultimately, I envision a world where computational systems orchestrate an organization with complex and open-ended goals from an online labor market. In fact, it's already happening, considering mTurk as a workplace or collaboration on open source projects. With such a vision in mind, I aspire to become one of the many researchers who will shape the future of work and collaboration.

**A: What are your plans after getting a PhD?**  
나: To be honest, I’m not sure. Because I think things are gonna change anyway. First of all, as I mentioned before, what I want to do right now is "research." But since I don't know how my thoughts are gonna change as I continue my PhD, I haven't published a specific plan in the far future. Maybe I would end up in the industry, or I could be working at Adobe or Microsoft Research. Anyway, one thing I am certain about is the direction. I have pretty much confidence that I would be doing something related to my current research interests no matter what specific profession I end up with. 

**A: What made you have such confidence? That is, why are you so certain about the relation between you and this field?**  
나: You know, there is an expression “connect the dots.” I literally connected the dots, things that I have been interested in or been good at, and this led me to the field of HCI. For instance, many thoughts that I have gone through while working as a front-end engineer in a lot of web projects were related to HCI: my interests in web accessibility led me to do the SoundGlance project. Moreover, my assignment at a class I took as a freshman was related to open source software projects, and I realized that a similar topic was being studied in the field. After all this, I could not help but fall in love with HCI. Plus, I got more confidence as I did an intern at two labs.

> 여기서부터는 **내가 그간 해온 연구와 앞으로 하고 싶은 연구**에 대한 이야기가 오갔다. 대부분 특정 프로젝트나 domain-specific한 내용이라 생략

**A: Okay, now that we have only 2 mins left, do you have any questions for me?**  
나: Yes, I do have a lot of questions. First of all, I wonder what kind of working style or advising style you have.  
A: Well, good question. To be honest, I am closer to hands-off rather than hands-on. Not entirely hands-off, cuz I do hold weekly meetings with my students, and my office is right in front of the lab. But I wish my student to be independent while I only suggest a direction, not interfering in every way.
나: Great! I also think that making my own is more enjoyable and meaningful compared to being spoon-fed.  

> 이후 인사말 생략


### 더 자세한 이야기

- [0] [어드미션 결과와 타임라인]({{ '/2020/08/study-abroad.html' | relative_url }})
- [1] 왜 박사유학을 가고 싶은가
- [2] [대학원 유학의 종류]({{ '/2020/09/grad-abroad.html' | relative_url })
- [3] 연구실 인턴 경험
- [4] GRE 준비 
- [5] 포트폴리오 사이트 및 CV 준비
- [6] 서류 준비: SOP/Personal statement/추천서
- [7-1] [인터뷰 준비과정]({{ '/2020/01/interview-1.html' | relative_url }})
- *[7-2] 인터뷰 스크립트 (현재 글)*
